This person wants you to
talk about view Vuex ORM.
>> In this example, I have machines and
then I have this operational,
it's essentially a machine condition and
then it gives me inventory.
I did not style this, cuz this is
purely to check Vuex ORM [LAUGH].
So from a really high level,
I can show you what Vuex ORM looks like,
if you are interested.
Essentially what you do
is you create a model, so
I created a model called snack and
then I created a model called machine.
And Vuex ORM has this concept of entities
which are essentially the name of
the specific thing.
So an entity is, this is called snack,
so this is useful because if you
are calling it from the component,
it'll be like this dot [INAUDIBLE] dot.
I think it's state.entities or
something like that.
So that's what an entity is,
it's just how you access it.
So also one thing to note with
Vuex ORM is that Vuex ORM is a plugin,
it's literally a plugin.
So we talked about plugins,
this is a plugin.
And then I can define my machine model.
In this case, this is actually really
unique because it's a relationship.
So I created a relationship
between the two,
so I'm matching the snacks
with the machines.
And then there's also
a concept of location,
which is a separate model to
check what that location is.
And so I can register those models
appropriately, and then I install it.
So as you might know,
this is plugin specific code.
You're essentially installing
that database with the models.
And then what I do next is I
can do various queries to it,
which are really useful.
So in Vuex ORM,
when you do a query you do,
before I go further,
I should explain the insert piece.
So Vuex ORM works only when
you insert data into it,
[LAUGH] cuz otherwise it's just a model,
right?
So what I wanna do is let's assume,
let's look at locations.
So locations is just an array
with two items within it.
So I can do location, which is model
insert, pass in the data and same for
everything else.
So what I'm using Vuex ORM for
here is defining the data model,
as well as the relationships, so
that's a very useful use case.
One example in which it is useful is let's
assume there's a concept of lock down.
I mean, we're in lock down, but there's
a concept of locking down a machine.
So let's say a location is locked down so
Wicker Park is a location in Chicago.
If I press this button,
locked down becomes true and
the machines that are in that
location are locked down.
The useful thing about Vuex ORM
is defining relationships,
defining state, updating state,
that updates the relationships
without you having to do that.
So what I want to show you is I
created a method called toggle status.
This obviously can be
pulled into a Vuex action,
like in this case I'm playing around
with Vuex ORM, so I wanted to just show.
So what I'm doing is I'm essentially going
into my location model, I'm doing a where.
So it's similar to SQL,
you could do where queries.
So really nice, you don't have to filter,
you don't have to do any of that,
you could just do where.
So location update where,
it matches a specific ID.
And then you update that
data appropriately.
And then again, what we can do here, is I
can query the machines that are in that
location and then notify those machines
that they are no longer operational.
So this is way cleaner and way easier
than having to do it any other way.
I also wrote more complex code.
That was just a very simple explanation,
so I will go into my Vuex ORM code.
Cd vuex-normalize, and
I think I had only three branches.
Yeah, so this is super complex Vuex ORM,
which is why
I was a bit worried going down this
rabbit hole, but I think it's useful.
So the thing that's useful
with Vuex ORM is how I've used
it is I define my models in a separate
folder, so I have a models folder.
And then within them, I define the
specific model, just so that it's cleaner,
I can know that this is
where my model lives.
And then I also have this
thing called helpers.
Because sometimes it can be really
annoying to have queries live everywhere.
So I have a helpers file,
so I know that these are specifically
going to use my model.
So it helps me reduce the clutter of
adding my model all over the place.
So with this, I can actually import
that into my store, essentially
what I'm doing here is, cuz this is
where I'm initializing the code, yeah.
So to answer your question about state and
Vuex ORM, which is very long winded,
I create an init function in my actions
where I'm initializing all the DB stuff.
This init is interesting and
I didn't talk about this, but I will now.
One thing I really like to
do with my Vuex code is,
I like to write extra things which
checks across all of my modules and
all of my code,
to see whether there's an init.
And then it automatically dispatches the
init [LAUGH] so, it's a really nice way
of checking and getting all data from
databases and standing things up.
So the initialization code of reading from
databases is independent of my components.
So the store does all that work.
So that's what this is.
And then I'm doing all the DB stuff here.
And then again, within my actions,
I can also use that to do queries.
I just chose to extrapolate
all the queries into a helper,
just because personally for me,
it's useful to extrapolate my personal
code that I'm doing in my store state,
and what's happening in Vuex ORM.
And then I pull that in as I see fit.